## Custom views with DRF generics and mixins
  ### Concept Overview
This concept page explores the concept of custom views with generics and mixins. Before we dive into it, let’s remind ourselves what these terms mean.

- **View:** A function that takes a web request and returns a response. Basically the connection between the client and the server

- **Generic Views:-** they are provided by the REST Framework and allow you to quickly build api views that map closely to the database models.

- **Mixins:** are reusable pieces of code that add functionality to views. instead of directly defining methods like .get() or .post() in your views, you can use these mixins to add specific actions.

That said, in this reading session, we will learn more about leveraging generics and mixins on customs views


## Topics
- Custom views with Mixins
- Custom views with generics
## Learning Objectives
- Understand how to create custom views
- Understand how to create custom views with DRF’s generics
- Understand how to create custom views with mixins


## Custom views with DRF’S generics
Generic views in DRF are classes that encapsulate common patterns for CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) operations. These views provide default implementations for handling HTTP methods like GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE. They abstract away repetitive code and promote code reuse.

Inorder to create custom views with the DRF’s generics, you need to define a class that inherits from the GenericAPIView class. This class extends from the APIView class, adding commonly required behavior for standard list and detail views.

Here is an example of custom views with generics:

```python
from rest_framework import generics
from .models import Book #replace with your working model
from .serializers import BookSerializer # replace with your project's serializer

class CustomBookCreateView(generics.CreateAPIView):
# can be any name, ensure to align with your project as this is sample exampls 
    queryset = Book.objects.all()
    serializer_class = BookSerializer

class CustomBookListView(generics.ListAPIView):
    queryset = Book.objects.all()
    serializer_class = BookSerializer
```

## Custom Views with mixins
Mixins are reusable components that can be combined with generic views to add specific behaviors, such as authentication, permission checks, or custom logic.

To implement mixins in Django, you can create a separate class for each mixin and then inherit it within the class where you want to incorporate the functionality. For instance, to utilize the LoginRequiredMixin in a view, you would define the mixin like this:


```python

from django.contrib.auth.mixins import LoginRequiredMixin
class MyView(LoginRequiredMixin, View):
   login_url = '/login/'
   redirect_field_name = 'redirect_to'

   def get(self, request):
       # Your view logic her
```

https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/generic-views/#mixins


https://www.django-rest-framework.org/api-guide/generic-views/#generic-views


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oz3SoVV27ak